---
categories:
- tool of the month
title: RXVT
slug: rxvt 
created: 1175877540
---
This week's tool:  RXVT

RXvt is an X-Windows alternative to XTerm.  However, that's not where
or why I use it.  RXvt is my prefereed shell window on *Windows*
systems.  I get it from the Cygwin Unix compatability distribution.
(It's not part of the default install set.)

(Incidentally, I've come to the point where I always do a full
installation of Cygwin.  To quote Rick B:  "Hey man, disk space is
free".)

Useful features:

* mouse only highlight-is-copy a la X-Windows
* Shift-click to paste
* completely resizable in both width and height
* Reads your ~/.Xdefaults for customizations (the appropriate section
  from mine is included at the bottom) 
* can copy/paste long lines

Drawbacks:

* It's a Cygwin tool, so acts kinda cygwin like.  However, you *can*
  use Windows command shell inside it and still see the features I
  listed above
* Depends on the cygwin installation, which is large and awkward.
* has some refresh oddities dealing with editing lines which wrap that
  I haven't figured out yet.


Here's the relevant lines from my <code>~/.Xdefaults</code>file.  (I like
green on black, somewhat small font.)

<code><pre>
     /* 
      * How about rxvt?
      *
      */
     
     /* rxvt*font:		-misc-fixed-medium-r-*-*-*-*-75-75-*-*-*-* */
     rxvt*jumpScroll:	true
     rxvt*saveLines:	1024
     rxvt*scrollBar:	on
     rxvt*scrollKey:	true
     rxvt*background:	black
     rxvt*cursorColor:	red
     rxvt*borderColor:	gold
     rxvt*foreground:	dark sea green
     rxvt*pointerColor:	white
     rxvt*backspacekey:     ^?
</pre></code>
